Extracting Time and Frequency Domain Features

Time Domain Features

1. Get sound
2. Sample and Quantize through ADC to get a digital signal
3. Framing (bundle together a bunch of samples)

check screenshot
frame 1: sample 1 ... 128
frame 2:sample 64 ... 192
frame 3: sample 128 ... 256
frame 4: saple 192 ... 320
- Frames a4re overlapped
- Fraes are audio chunks that are percievable
1 sample @ 44.1KHZ = 0.0227ms (1/44100)
Human hear can't hear sound below 10ms
Framing gives enough time of an audi signal so we can hear
Frames have a frame zize (number of samples) hat is usually a power of 2 this enables the applcation of the Fast Fourier Transform to pefrom faster
Typical values are between 256-8192
df = 1/Sr .K
Duration of a frame
 = Inverse of sampling rate multiplied by frame size
Sr = sample rate
K = total samples

4. Compute time domain features on each of the frames
5.Aggregate the result for thewhole sound( mean, median, GMM)
6 Output is a feature value/vector or matrix

Frequency Domain Featires

1. Get sound
2. Sample and Quantize through ADC to get a digital signal
3. Framing (bundle together a bunch of samples)
4. Windowing
Move from time domain to frequency domain that is Fourier transform (from time representation to frequency representation )
However there maybe a problem known as Spectral Leakage.
This happens when processing a signal that isnt an integer number of periods
The endpoints of a signal are discontinued as they're not an integer number of periods.
Discontinuities appear as high frequency components yet they dont exist in the original signal
- Some of these discontinuities leak into other higher frequencies thus spectral Leakage
- Spectral leakage can be minimised using windowing

- Apply a windowing function to each frame before passing to Fourier Transform
- Eliminates samples at both ends of a frame
- This generates a periodic signal that minimizes spectral leakage

Hann Window
- This is a function of the samples
Check screenshot for Hann Window formula

Sw (K) = s(k) . w(k). k = 1 ...k

we ultiply the original signal by the hann window at each correspondent sample
Check screenshot for Windowing formula
Check screenshot of result of windowing 

5. Overlapping Frames
However this results in another problem when all the frames are put together, at the beginning and end of every frame we loose signal from windowing
check screenshot of tis problem
This is solved by overlapping frames
Frame size (K)
Hop Length / hop size - tells the amount of samples we shift to the right every time we take a new frame

6. Fourier
7. Coompute frequency domain features on each frame
8.Aggregate the result for thewhole sound( mean, median, GMM)
9.Output is a feature value/vector or matrix
